literatür taraması okuma esnasında alınan notlar (ara raporda bahsedilenler, finalde detaylı değinilecek)

LUDVIGSON

University of Michigan ve conference board survey confidence indeksini kullanıyorlar ama çok az soru var bunda. benim kullandığım indeksler daha kapsamlı data topluyor .
aslında bu survey ile yapılan çalışmaları kıyaslıyor gibi.
Michigan conducts its survey by phone throughout most of the month. Its
sample size is approximately 500; a preliminary mid-month release is based on
about two-thirds of the full sample phone interviews conducted early in the month.
Final figures for the full sample are subsequently made available at the end of the
month and are not subject to further revision. The Conference Boarmail survey at the end of the prior month, and responses flow in throughout the
survey month. The effective sample size is roughly 3,500 (of a total mailing of
5,000). This sample of 5,000 is drawn from an original sample in which respondents
agree to do the interviews
yöntemleri ve sample size ları çok farklı

istatistiksel olarak yorumluyor iki indeksi

able 2 presents how well the consumer confidence surveys can forecast
the growth of various categories of personal consumption expenditure.
Following Bram and Ludvigson (1998), Table 2 measures the effect of con?
sumer attitudes on five categories of household personal consumption expen?
diture: total expenditure, motor vehicle expenditure, expenditure on all
goods (excluding motor vehicles), expenditure on services and expenditure on
durable goods excluding motor vehicles. The data, from the Bureau of Eco?
nomic Analysis, span the period from the first quarter of 1968 to the fourth
quarter of 2002; that is, the largest possible sample for which both indexes are
available. benim gibi çeşitli ürünlerle şey yapıyorlar ama ürün yelpazesi ve farkları baya geniş. motorlu araç var mesela. hizmet fiyatlarını da dahil etmiş.
regression kullanmış ben de kullandım

 The next question is whether confi?
dence measures contain predictive information that is not already contained in a
standard set of baseline economic indicators. bunu anlamadım bu yok bence bende ama

Here, I use the same baseline indicators that are common in previous work o
the predictive power of consumer confidence surveys, like Carroll, Fuhrer an
Wilcox (1994) and Bram and Ludvigson (1998). The baseline indicators are lagge
values of the dependent variable, labor income growth, the (log) first difference
the real stock price and the first difference of the three-month Treasury bill ra
Labor income is defined as wages and salaries plus transfers minus personal contribu?
tions for social insurance, as it appears in the quarterly components from the Depart
ment of Commerce's National Income and Product Accounts. Stock prices are qu
terly averages based on the Standard and P gelir ve fiyatlara değinmiş sanki burada biraz. bende de var.

rs. For each category of consumption, the table presents the sum of t
coefficients on the lags of each baseline variable and ^-values for the joint margi
significance of the lags of each variable in p lag kullanmış ben lag bakmadım. p değerleri 0.05 in altında genelde güzel gibi


The results indicate that both the Michigan and Conference Board overall
indexes have modest incremental forecasting power for total personal consumer
expenditure growth  bu sonuca varmış

er Empirical Connections from Consumer Confidence to Consumption
The analysis above uses historical data on consumption and income. Historical
data on consumption and income become available as advanced estimates only with a one-month delay, and are subsequently revised twice over the following two
months, with occasional "benchmark revisions" done approximately every five
years. It thus leaves open questions about whether consumer confidence might be
useful as a real-time predictor.5
Some researchers have used historical data to explore the possibility that
consumer confidence measures may improve forecasts because observations on
sentiment for the first month of the quarter are available to predict the advanced
estimate of the full-quarter value of consumption
Does the output of consumer confidence surveys correspond to any well-
defined economic concept that would help explain the modest predictive power
consumer attitude
If higher consumer confidence levels capture reduced uncertainty abo
the future and therefore diminished the precautionary motive for saving, th
higher consumer confidence should be associated with a higher level of co
sumption today, relative to to
Another interpretation of consumer confidence surveys is that they prim
capture household expectations of future income or wealth. Of course, unde
general version of the permanent income hypothesis, consumption should ch
because of unexpected rises in permanent income. However, higher confide
levels could be related to future consumption growth if households are liqu
constrained so that greater income is closely tracked by greater consumption
some households follow a "rule-of-thumb" of consuming some fraction of
current income ever - sonuçlar ve sonuçlarr

THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN SALES VOLUME
AND CONSUMER CONFIDENCE INDEX IN THE
TURKISH RETAIL INDUSTRY

n this study, in order to identify the relationship between the retail sales
volume and consumer confidence in Turkey based on data from the 2010Q1-
2015Q4 period; the retail sales volume index (RSVI)3, the GDP per person with
constant prices (GDP), consumer price index (CPI) and Consumer confidence
index (CCI)4 were used as variables. ben de consumer conf index kullandım

ben ekonomik şeylerle korelasyon falan bakmadım. sadece endeks ve alışveriş verisi vardı. ayrıca ben daha yakın tarihli araştırma yaptım. DAHA GÜNCELİM
güven endekslerinin genel tüketime etkis iincelenmiş. artırdığını bulmuşlar. ben güven artınca tüketim azalıyor buldum :)
farklı dönemleri incelediğimiz için farklı tepkiler olmuş olabilir. ayrıca benimki sadece istanbul verisi bu sanırım tüm türkiye

Predicting Regional Economic Indices Using Big Data
Of Individual Bank Card Transactions
benim projeme göre tersten gidiyor. harcamadan endeks çıakrıyor gibi ama temelde aynı ilişki bnce

We analyze the complete set of bank card transactions
recorded by BBVA during 2011, all over Spain1 local yapıyotlar yine araştırmayı

Transactions that are in our dataset were performed by
proposed approach for teaching a model based on them.
two groups of bank card users. The first one consists of
BBVA direct customers, residents of Spain, who hold a
4.1 Microeconomic indicators
debit or credit card issued by BBVA. In 2011, the total
number of active customers was around 4.5 million, alto-
gether they executed more than 178 million transactions in
over 1.2 million points of sale, spending over 10 billion eu-
ros. The second group of bank card users includes over 8.6
million foreign customers of all other banks abroad com-
ing from 175 countries, who made purchases through one
of the approximately 300 thousand BBVA card terminals.
In total, they executed additional 17 million transactions,
spending over 1.5 billion euro. muazzam bir dataları var. aslında kredi kartı harcamalarından yürütmek bu projeyi de güzel olabilirmiş. önerilerde bunu yazalım

rom BBVA dataset of individual spending behavior for the
period of one year, we extract 35 diﬀerent microeconomics
indicators that explain economic behaviors from both cus-
tomer and business sides (see Table 1). Before calculat-
ing the aforementioned parameters, BBVA dataset had to
be pre-processed in order to compensate for potential bias
introduced by the spatial inhomogeneity of BBVA market
share.  cidden big data paper ı.

indikatörlerde alım kategoritleri var yine. petrol sağlık gibi büyük harcamalrı da kapsadığı için avm den daha güzel kapsamış harcamalraı
gece gündüzü ayırmış yine avm olmadığı için

GDP dahil etmiş. buradaki projelerde GDP ye bir değinme var. bende yok

çok feature olunca tabii pca ile sadeleşmeye gitmiş çok krele olanlarda. biz de eledik bazı indisleri

6 ekonomik indis tahmin etmişler. gdp housing ... falan

Finally, the pro-
posed model can be further employed for estimating more
specific characteristics of local economic performance ad-
dressing particular business needs. bunu önermişler biz de bunu yaptık zaten.

doğru orantı mı ters orantı mı göremedim bu paperda.
çok güzel paper keşke benim olsa